# CS360_MobileArchitect

For this final project I developed the first iteration of an Event Tracking app. The event-tracking app will allow users to create events, view event details, delete or update events at will. I approached the coding process by breaking down the system into logical components first based on user needs. Once I understood the user need for this app was organizing/scheduling events and tracking their events dates I defined the main interfaces needed for the app to be a login/register function and a database function to show and edit all events. This means the first iteration of the app ended up only having 2 screens. One screen for user to login to app, or register their profile to set up a login, and another screen to show a database of all events and update it at the user's discretion. These screens keep users in mind by using the less is more approach. Just the bare-bones functions with some design elements such as a pretty but pale background so the buttons stand out.

When testing app to ensure functionality I used a method call regression testing. Once I had the layouts designed I created a single simple functionality, like a textView and a button, then ran the app on the Android emulator in Android studio. Once I confirmed that was working I added more code to add more elements and functions. After each major code change I tested again to ensure it worked and if I ran into issue I troubleshoot and debug what I had just written to work it out. The core challenge I had through this whole process was managing screen and database reusibility for easier updating when trying to improve code in future iterations. To overcome this I made the codebase in this last project modularized to promote code reusability and maintainability. I also made sure the code is thoroughly commented to enhance readability and make it easier for other developers to understand and contribute to the project.
